# OPEN VISION ATTENDANCE SYSTEM - OVAS
The face recognition-based student attendance system emphasis its simplicity by eliminating the problems existing in current student attendance marking system. Problems such as calling student names or checking respective identification cards in an Examination Hall. The lecture classes specially the class with a large number of students can be chaotic to take attendance. Thus, face recognition student attendance system is proposed in order to replace the Current System. 
Using Local Binary Patterns Histograms (LBPH) algorithm in Open CV the student’s faces are trained and recognized. Python automates the tasks by providing for the execution of the programs in Computer Vision and GUI of the system along with managing the database of the student attendance. Furthermore, the face recognition based automated student attendance system able to overcome the problem of fraudulent approach and lecturers does not have to count the number of students several times to ensure the presence of the students. 
And furthermore, to avoid the risk of spoofing, the camera if installed inside the classroom can click an image or feed on the live video at a certain interval, say every 15 Minutes, it will detect the Number of Students and recognise their faces and punch the Attendance in the Last 10-15 Minutes of the Lecture. And if a student went out of the classroom for any reason, he will not be marked absent as this system will only punch in the attendance at the end of the lecture, and if it recognises the student in the classroom say 3 out of 4 times (Since taking attendance Every 15 Minutes), The Student will be Marked as Present.
